In the last lecture we created our brand new job that created some more e-mails so we ended up sending
quite a lot of e-mails about our particular comment that was added to a blog post.
So we sent an e-mail to the altar of the blog post and also to everyone who commented on our blog post.
So it actually happens that this mail truck tool has some limitations and it allows to send only two
emails per 10 seconds on a free account at least.
And basically this is an extreme example because well we are using a free account so we shouldn't expect
much but it's actually a good example of how doing a background processing can help you better utilize
the resources that you have available.
So in our example the problem was that we sent more than two emails per 10 seconds.
And even if those jobs failed and were retried they failed again because we have used the quota available.
So let's immediately fix that.
So our very naive method of handling this would be to remove this interface from that comment post that
watched Malabo class and then create a simple timer so we can create a new instance of the date using
now helper method.
Then we will use that inside our closure so now and what we will actually do is instead of calling send
on the mail for seed We'll call later and we will specify when that should be sent so we will do it
like that.
So instead of sand we'll be calling later and we'll add let's say six seconds to accommodate for the
limit of two emails per 10 seconds.
So this is now at seconds let's say six.
So a very naive implementation of that.
Now if you would run your Q Walker again so it should be empty right now.
Now let's try to send an email.
Well sorry.
Let's try to either comment and comment naive
and what you would see is immediately there is one job that is processing the email that is sent to
the blog post out.
Then we are having our job that notifies older user older users and then you can see those jobs slowly
start starting to get process to send all the emails to all the people that are actually commented on
a blog post before.
And now they should all be processed.
But it takes time and also another problem is that while you might have other places inside your application
that might use a resource might try to send an email.
So it's like a very naive and non effective way of solving this problem.
So there is actually a thing you can do and it's called rate limiting.
So first let's take a look at a lot of documentation about QS to rate limiting and what it says here
with an asterisk.
So it seems it is important.
This feature requires that your application can interact with already server and actually achieving
rate limiting is very simple you just need to add a specific key to using the Redis facade and well
it's even described here what this is is doing.
So you create a lock so not nothing else would be allowed to perform certain operation that is locked
using specific key.
And then this operation is only allowed to run extremes every X seconds.
So or your job logic has to go inside this closure after that then call.
And then when this job fails to run there is another closure which you will also have to implement.
And in this case the release means that the job that was being or supposed to be processed should be
released back to the queue onto the queue.
So it can be processed again.
Now this documentation might be a little bit misleading because it might suggest that for example you
can use that my sequel database and then just use the Redis connection that you actually have.
But that's not the case.
And this will only work if your connection or you use the cube connection for the QS which is Redis.
And currently we have set it up to run inside our database so to make this feature working you will
actually have to open your dot and file and change the Q connection environment variable to Redis.
So not is that normally we had that set up as a database.
Now it has to change to Redis.
Also you have to make sure that you have configured any Redis connection either using the free cloud
solution that is in the other lecture or basically you can also set it up on your system doesn't really
matter.
You have to have a redis connection to continue and to actually see that this is working.
So that's fine.
We.
Well basically we'll still have a failed job stable inside our database where all the jobs that have
failed will be put inside this table.
So whenever we would like to put something again on a queue there that's no problem.
This would be just push to the Redis queue and in the end those queues are not a permanent storage.
They are meant to put something on them and then process those jobs and immediately remove those things.
So we shouldn't worry anyway.
Let's go back to our implementation.
So previously we came up with this naive thinking that if we limit something to be well to run less
than this 10 seconds which may trump has a limit for it allows us to send two emails per 10 seconds.
So if we will try to send one e-mail per six seconds then we are fine with their limit.
Now actually this might be a problem because that's not the only place where we send emails.
Even in this very action where we are adding a comment first we are submitting a comment to the queue.
So anyway this would be processed as soon as possible and only then we notify other users that the post
was comment that so we might fail anyway and well imagine that you might also have quite a lot of other
emails sending all the time throughout your application so our example is very straightforward because
currently we have two types of email and there are both sent when someone is commenting on a blog post.
But obviously when your application grows you might be sending quite a lot of emails on every occasion.
Some transactional emails any kind of that stuff.
So let's not focus too much about this limit of mail drop but this is just an example of how you can
work around those limits of the external API that you are using and well our mail drop actually has
a limit that forbids us for doing more requests than to per 10 seconds.
So to solve that what we will do is we'll actually create a specific job for our emails so we'll create
new jobs so peach bee artisan make job and we'll call it fertile fruit old male so this command will
create a new class for us inside the job folder and what we will do is we'll use this class to send
all the emails to the male Trump API through this throttled male class.
So mind that this is not a male not available.
This is our job class.
So first inside the constructor we will need two arguments.
So there will be male level male and user for the user to whom we should send this email.
So you have to add import.
So first is the male we can use male level since all male classes are actually extending this class.
So they're on the same type.
So basically this type is safe for us.
It will check if this class basically is male or extends male level.
Now we'll store those those variables as a Fields on this job.
So this male equals male and this user equals user let's also define those fields as public.
So public user public male
and now what we will do is we will actually use this rate limiting from the larval documentation example
here so we can even copy that sorry.
Remove this comment first.
Copy that and this will be actually the job handling.
So every email that we will try to send will go through this throttled email filter to my job queue.
Now we will throttle it using a key lets say male trap because we have a limit there.
So you have to just come up with a unique key throughout your application mind that this also makes
sense.
If you run plenty of queue workers not just one.
And while that might be the case you might even run them on different servers not just the one server
so using Redis as our front link or rate limiting tool is safe because if they all connect to the same
ready server you will make sure this job is only run once and it is actually filtered on whichever queue
worker it is bank run.
So this is my job and we are allowed to actually run it 2 times per 12 seconds just to be safe.
And this is our logic.
So our logic would be male sorry male to this you this user.
So we get the user and send mail.
Sorry this mail.
So this is only responsible for actually sending that email and then we release two jobs.
Sorry we.
Sorry that's a delay parameter so let's say 10 seconds or 5 seconds so really this means that if the
particular job was tried to be run and well the key inside the Redis existed.
So there was a lock for my made trap mean it cannot be executed at this time then would release this
job to the key back again to the queue and it should be run again in five seconds.
So this makes sense.
We do not want to try it immediately after it has failed but just so you know you can just provide a
parameter for this that default.
Default is 0 if you want provide any.
It would be tried to rerun immediately.
Now that we have this throttled mail what we can do is here instead of trying to send mail using queue
this first one to notify the outer of the blog post what we will do is we'll actually use our new filtered
mail and will immediately dispatch it.
And as we know it requires some parameters so my level.
So this time this would be new.
Comment posted markdown this one and then we have user which we know we can take from that post so post
user.
Now you can comment that or just remove it at all but let's leave it for for now.
So that's the first part.
And then inside notify users post was comment.
And so what we can do here is actually we can remove this timer.
We do not need that anymore.
Now this job can be executed immediately because what this basically does.
It will also create something on the queue to send the e-mail actually but the query can be executed
immediately.
And here we are also use for auto mail dispatch and we are sending that sorry the first parameter is
mail.
So we are sending this mail
to the user since we are iterating over user.
Yeah.
That's the user we want to send out to.
Let's make sure that's correct.
Yes.
OK.
So now we can even remove this mail call here.
Now let's make sure we have all the imports so well and we can remove this may if I say it's not required
but we do not have an import for throttled mail.
So let's make sure it's added.
Well actually I was wrong Q2 we do not need this import again because this is the same namespace.
It's actually a job and well throttled mail is from the same namespace so visual to your code is right
by not asking me to add an import.
So let's make sure we have throttled mail here in post comment controller of course here we can also
remove unused say mail and also the command post that we are not using it anymore.
So that's a great feature of visual studio.
Giving us hints like that.
Now inside throttled mail we are importing up user we are importing mail.
Yes.
So everything should be correct.
We are sending them mail to the user.
We end the mail.
Is this one.
OK.
Now let's save the changes.
Also remember to change your environment.
Q connection to Redis now also inside the throttled mail.
Well we do not have import for ready so I've just noticed that.
So let's make sure we have a proper import for the Redis first aid and actually we also do not have
the mail for sale.
So let's type it again.
So the visual studio code can add an import for it.
So otherwise we will get all these jobs inside the failed jobs.
If we haven't added those imports.
So just so you know if you do not know why your job has failed you can always go to the failed jobs
and then see any exception that actually has happened.
So now let's run this worker and go to the application make sure you are logged in and add some comment.
Doesn't really matter what you will right here.
And now let's see the queue worker so it immediately starts with our throttled mail.
So this is the first one for notifying the blog post out door and then from the notified users post
was comment that this is run.
Also immediately and then it is this badgering from old mail and you know it is processed one by one
basically sometimes it might hold it for 12 seconds if for example there are actually two emails sent
so we'd want to try that again and then it will be just locked.
So this is how you will solve that.
And then whenever you have limits like that inside your API.
Then you just have to make sure that you are right limiting it with the same key.
So make sure that this is only locking this process for our specific key.
So whenever this would be this front of mail would be put on a queue from any place inside your application.
This will make sure that it won't run more than two times every 12 seconds.
While you can not only use that for the rate limiting of like external API but for example if you needed
for any other reason.